Update doc to publish private provider as usage guide (#485)
hashicorp/terraform-docs-common: website/docs/cloud-docs/registry/publish-providers.mdx

### Release files

You must publish at least one version of your provider that follows [semantic versioning format](http://semver.org). For each version, you must upload the `SHA256SUMS` file, `SHA256SUMS.sig` file, and one or more provider binaries. Using GoReleaser to [create a release on GitHub](/terraform/registry/providers/publishing#creating-a-github-release) or [create a release locally](/terraform/registry/providers/publishing#using-goreleaser-locally) generates these files automatically. The private registry does not have strict naming conventions, but we recommend using GoReleaser file naming schemes for consistency.

Private providers do not currently support documentation.

### Signed releases

GPG signing is required for private providers, and you must upload the public key of the GPG keypair used to sign the release. Refer to [Preparing and Adding a Signing Key](/terraform/registry/providers/publishing#preparing-and-adding-a-signing-key) for more details. Unlike the public Terraform Registry, the private registry does not automatically upload new releases. You must manually add new provider versions and the associated release files.

> -> **NOTE**: If you are using the API to upload an official HashiCorp public provider into your private registry, use [HashiCorp's public PGP key](https://www.hashicorp.com/.well-known/pgp-key.txt). You do not need to upload this public key, and it is automatically included in Terraform Enterprise version v202309-1 and newer.

Reviewer: I'm assuming this is the provider API?
```suggestion
-> **Note**: If you are using the [provider API](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/providers) to upload an official HashiCorp public provider into your private registry, use [HashiCorp's public PGP key](https://www.hashicorp.com/.well-known/pgp-key.txt). You do not need to upload this public key, and it is automatically included in Terraform Enterprise version v202309-1 and newer.
```

## Publishing a provider

> Before consumers can use a private provider, you must create the provider, upload a GPG signing key, create at least one version, create at least one platform for that version, and upload release files.

Reviewer: Since you have to do a long list of items in sequence can we make this an ordered list?
```suggestion
Before consumers can use a private provider, you must do the following:
1. [Create the provider](#create-the-provider)
2. [Upload a GPG signing key](#add-your-public-key)
3. [Create at least one version](#create-a-version)
4. [Create at least one platform for that version](#create-a-provider-platform)
5. [Upload release files](#upload-provider-binary)
```

### Create the provider

Create a file named `provider.json` with the following contents. Replace `PROVIDER_NAME` with the name of your provider and replace `ORG_NAME` with the name of your organization.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "registry-providers",
    "attributes": {
      "name": "PROVIDER_NAME",
      "namespace": "ORG_NAME",
      "registry-name": "private"
    }
  }
}
```

Use the [Create a Provider endpoint](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/providers#create-a-provider) to create the provider in Terraform Cloud. Replace `TOKEN` in the `Authorization` header with your Terraform Cloud API token and replace `ORG_NAME` with the name of your organization.

```shell-session
$ curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request POST \
  --data @provider.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/ORG_NAME/registry-providers
```

> The provider is now available in your organization’s Terraform Cloud private registry, but consumers cannot use it until you add a version and a platform. To create them, you will will need the provider binaries, public GPG signing key, `SHA256SUMS` file, and `SHA256SUMS.sig` file from at least one release.

Reviewer: I kind of like the idea of splitting this out into an unordered list, I think it makes it more scannable. What do you think?
```suggestion
The provider is now available in your organization’s Terraform Cloud private registry, but consumers cannot use it until you add a version and a platform. 

To create a version and a platform, you need the following resources:
* The Provider binaries
* A public GPG signing key
* A `SHA256SUMS` file
* A `SHA256SUMS.sig` file from at least one release
```

Author: Great call!

### Add your public key

> -> **NOTE**: If you are uploading a public provider into your private registry, skip this step and instead use [HashiCorp's public PGP key](https://www.hashicorp.com/.well-known/pgp-key.txt). To retrieve the `key-id` of HashiCorp's public PGP key, TODO

Author: @rclark Is there a way for users to retrieve the current key ID for HashiCorp's public key? Will it always be the value `34365D9472D7468F`, and if so, is this documented anywhere? Does it ever change? Thanks!

Reviewer 2: It will always be this value, until due to some security incident, we're forced to rotate the GPG key.

At https://www.hashicorp.com/security, the `PGP Public Key` section documents this, and this is the first place that would be changed in the event of a rotation. The text on that page is a little off of what we needed to be able to link someone directly there. Specifically:

- This API call requires a 16-character key-id
- The page shows a short, 8-character key-id (the last 8 characters of what we need)
- The page also shows a long, 40-character fingerprint
- Notice that the 16-character key-id we need is the last 16 characters of that fingerprint

My big (sarcastic) question is, who came up with GPG anyway? 3 ways to say "the key ID"? Two ways to even talk about the concept in the first place (GPG vs PGP)? Comon

Reviewer 2: Ultimately, I think we just should write the 16-char ID here, and if it ever changes, we need to update this page.

Author: sounds good, I did also find [this tutorial](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/cli/verify-archive#download-and-import-hashicorp-s-public-key) that lists how to retrieve the key ID by importing the key locally, but that seems like a fairly large hassle as the `gpg` CLI tool doesn't seem to be installed by default on OSX at least. I'll update this callout with that information. Thanks!

> -> **NOTE**: If you are uploading a public provider into your private registry, skip this step and instead use [HashiCorp's public PGP key](https://www.hashicorp.com/.well-known/pgp-key.txt). To retrieve the `key-id` of HashiCorp's public PGP key, TODO

Reviewer 2: Let's add a link to the next step to this note. Something to make it stand out a little bit more. I skimmed right past it the first time I read the page.

It may also not be necessary to hyperlink to the key itself, since we include it for you. The important thing for this note to convey is, skip this step, use this key-id in the next step.

> -> **NOTE**: If you are uploading an official HashiCorp public provider into your private registry, skip this step and instead use [HashiCorp's public PGP key](https://www.hashicorp.com/.well-known/pgp-key.txt) in the the [create a version](#create-a-version) step. The key ID for HashiCorp's public ID is `34365D9472D7468F`, and you can verify the ID by [importing the public key locally](/terraform/tutorials/cli/verify-archive#download-and-import-hashicorp-s-public-key).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **Note**: If you are uploading an official HashiCorp public provider into your private registry, skip this step and instead use [HashiCorp's public PGP key](https://www.hashicorp.com/.well-known/pgp-key.txt) in the the [create a version](#create-a-version) step. The key ID for HashiCorp's public ID is `34365D9472D7468F`, and you can verify the ID by [importing the public key locally](/terraform/tutorials/cli/verify-archive#download-and-import-hashicorp-s-public-key).
```

Create a file named `key.json` with the following contents. Replace `ORG_NAME` with the name of your organization and supply your public key in the `ascii-armor` field.

```hcl
{
  "data": {
    "type": "gpg-keys",
    "attributes": {
      "namespace": "ORG_NAME",
      "ascii-armor": "-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n\nmQINB...=txfz\n-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----\n"
    }  }
}
```

Use the [Add a GPG key endpoint](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/gpg-keys#add-a-gpg-key) to add the public key that matches the signing key for the release. Replace `TOKEN` in the `Authorization` header with your Terraform Cloud API token.

```shell-session
$ curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request POST \
  --data @key.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/registry/private/v2/gpg-keys
```

The response contains a `key-id` that you will use to create a provider version.

```json
"key-id": "34365D9472D7468F"
```

### Create a version

> Create a file named `version.json` with the following contents. Replace the value of the `version` field with the version of your provider, and replace the `key-id` field with the id of the GPG key that you created in the [Add your public key](#add-your-public-key) step.

Reviewer 2: I think it makes sense to _also_ put a note here that says "if you're uploading a public provider, then use key-id 34365D9472D7468F"

> Create a file named `version.json` with the following contents. Replace the value of the `version` field with the version of your provider, and replace the `key-id` field with the id of the GPG key that you created in the [Add your public key](#add-your-public-key) step. If you are uploading a  official HashiCorp public provider, use the value `34365D9472D7468F` for your `key-id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named `version.json` with the following contents. Replace the value of the `version` field with the version of your provider, and replace the `key-id` field with the id of the GPG key that you created in the [Add your public key](#add-your-public-key) step. If you are uploading an official HashiCorp public provider, use the value `34365D9472D7468F` for your `key-id`.
```

```hcl
{
  "data": {
    "type": "registry-provider-versions",
    "attributes": {
      "version": "5.14.0",
      "key-id": "34365D9472D7468F",
      "protocols": ["5.0"]
    }
  }
}
```

> Use the [Create a Provider Version endpoint](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/provider-versions-platforms#create-a-provider-version) to create a version for your provider. Replace `TOKEN` in the `Authorization` header with your Terraform Cloud API token and replace both instances of `ORG_NAME` with the name of your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [Create a Provider Version endpoint](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/provider-versions-platforms#create-a-provider-version) to create a version for your provider. Replace `TOKEN` in the `Authorization` header with your Terraform Cloud API token, and replace both instances of `ORG_NAME` with the name of your organization.
```

```shell-session
$ curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request POST \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/ORG_NAME/registry-providers/private/ORG_NAME/aws/versions
```

 The response includes URL links that you will use to upload the `SHA256SUMS` and `SHA256.sig` files.

```json
"links": {
    "shasums-upload":     "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b64hd73ghd63",
    "shasums-sig-upload": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b37dj37dh33d"
  }
```

### Upload signatures

> Upload the `SHA256SUMS` and `SHA256SUMS.sig` files to the URLs returned in the previous step. The example command below uploads the files from your local machine. First upload the `SHA256SUMS` file to the URL returned in the `shasums-upload` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upload the `SHA256SUMS` and `SHA256SUMS.sig` files to the URLs [returned in the previous step](#create-a-version). The example command below uploads the files from your local machine. First upload the `SHA256SUMS` file to the URL returned in the `shasums-upload` field.
```

```shell-session
$ curl \
  -T terraform-provider-aws_5.14.0_SHA256SUMS \
  https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b64hd73ghd63...
```

Next, upload the `SHA256SUMS.sig` file to the URL returned in the `shasums-sig-upload` field.

```shell-session
$ curl \
  -T terraform-provider-aws_5.14.0_SHA256SUMS.72D7468F.sig \
  https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b37dj37dh33d...
```

> ### Create a provider platform endpoint

Reviewer 2: ❓ Why did you put `endpoint` onto this heading? We usually refer to them as `provider platforms` or `provider binaries`.

Author: Typo :) Nice catch!

> First, calculate the SHA256 hash of the provider binary that you will upload. This should match the SHA256 hash of the file listed in the `SHA256SUMS` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, calculate the SHA256 hash of the provider binary that you intend to upload. This should match the SHA256 hash of the file listed in the `SHA256SUMS` file.
```

```shell-session
$ shasum -a 256 terraform-provider-aws_5.14.0_linux_amd64.zip
f1d83b3e5a29bae471f9841a4e0153eac5bccedbdece369e2f6186e9044db64e  terraform-provider-aws_5.14.0_linux_amd64.zip
```

> Next, create a file named `platform.json`. Replace the `os`, `arch`, `filename`, and `shasum` fields with the values that match the provider that you will upload. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a file named `platform.json`. Replace the `os`, `arch`, `filename`, and `shasum` fields with the values that match the provider you intend to upload. 
```

      "filename": "terraform-provider-aws_5.14.0_linux_amd64.zip"
    }
  }
}
```

Use the [Create a Provider Platform endpoint](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/provider-versions-platforms#create-a-provider-platform) to create a platform for the version. Platforms are binaries that allow the provider to run on a particular operating system and architecture combination (e.g., Linux and AMD64).  Replace `TOKEN` in the `Authorization` header with your Terraform Cloud API token and replace both instances of `ORG_NAME` with the name of your organization.

```shell-session
$ curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request POST \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/organizations/ORG_NAME/registry-providers/private/ORG_NAME/aws/versions/5.14.0/platforms
```

The response includes a `provider-binary-upload` URL that you will use to upload the binary file for the platform.

```json
"links": {
      "provider-binary-upload": "https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b45c367djh45nj78"
    }
```

### Upload provider binary

> Upload the platform binary file to the `provider-binary-upload` URL returned in the previous step. The example command below uploads the binary from your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upload the platform binary file to the `provider-binary-upload` URL returned in the [previous step](#create-a-version). The example command below uploads the binary from your local machine.
```

```shell-session
$ curl -T local-example/terraform-provider-random_5.14.0_linux_amd64.zip
  https://archivist.terraform.io/v1/object/dmF1b45c367djh45nj78
```

> The version is available in the Terraform Cloud UI. Consumers can begin using this provider version in configurations. You can repeat these steps starting from the [Upload signatures](#upload-signatures) step to add additional platform binaries for the release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The version is available in the Terraform Cloud UI. Consumers can begin using this provider version in configurations. You can repeat these steps starting from the [Create a provider platform endpoint](#create-a-provider-platform-endpoint) step to add additional platform binaries for the release.
```

You don't have to upload new shasum/sig files, just make a new platform, upload the binary, for each combination of OS and arch you built support for.

> The version is available in the Terraform Cloud UI. Consumers can begin using this provider version in configurations. You can repeat these steps starting from the [Create a provider platform](#create-a-provider-platform) step to add additional platform binaries for the release.

Reviewer: Could you add details on _where_ in TFC the version is available? 
```suggestion
The version is available in the Terraform Cloud user interface. Consumers can now begin using this provider version in configurations. You can repeat these steps starting from [Create a provider platform](#create-a-provider-platform) to add additional platform binaries for the release.
```

> The version is available in the Terraform Cloud UI. Consumers can begin using this provider version in configurations. You can repeat these steps starting from the [Create a provider platform endpoint](#create-a-provider-platform) step to add additional platform binaries for the release.

Reviewer 2: Sorry! gonna nit pick just once more here

```suggestion
The version is available in the Terraform Cloud UI. Consumers can begin using this provider version in configurations. You can repeat these steps starting from the [Create a provider platform](#create-a-provider-platform) step to add additional platform binaries for the release.
```

> The version is available in the Terraform Cloud UI. Consumers can begin using this provider version in configurations. You can repeat these steps starting from the [Create a provider platform endpoint](#create-a-provider-platform-endpoint) step to add additional platform binaries for the release.

Reviewer 2: I think you changed the heading, so this link to the step above isn't right now

Author: Good catch! Fixed!
